the head of the CIA the United States
Central Intelligence Agency will visit
Qatar to discuss the Gaza War William
Burns will meet government officials
here to discuss ongoing negotiations
over the potential release of Israeli
captives held by Hamas in Gaza up to 15
captives could be freed in exchange for
a ceasefire Rob Reynolds reports from
Washington
DC CIA director William Burns has been
traveling for the past several days in
the Middle East he went first to Israel
then to Egypt and now to Qatar a country
which has played a key role in
negotiating the release of hostages held
by Hamas in Gaza the talks appear to
Center on a idea of a three-day pause in
Israel's attacks on Gaza in return for
the release by Hamas of 10 to 15
hostages and analysts say the talks
appear to be gaining momentum there's a
lot of sort of movement in the right
direction on the hostages that will be a
main focus of what burns is up to and
Hamas and and Israel at times they'll
take this Maximus positions we won't do
this unless all of that happens but both
sides are also talking about women for
women children for children elderly for
elderly Fighters for Fighters so when
you have that type of rhetoric there is
a glimmer of hope that some hostages
Will Survive and be released burn spent
much of his long career as a diplomat in
the Middle East and is well known to the
leaders in that region
he is also reportedly traveling to
Jordan and the United Arab Emirates as
well as possibly other countries all in
a bid to provide some respit to the
inhabitants of Gaza and the release of
some hostages as the war rages on Rob
Reynolds Al jazer
Washington and we're also hearing that
the Amir of Qatar shik tamim bin Hamad
Alani will travel to Egypt tomorrow on
an official visit he'll be holding talks
with Egypt's President Abdul fatel CeCe
Glenn Carl is the former deputy National
Intelligence officer for transnational
threats at the CIA you're joining us on
Skype from Boston in the United States
I'd like your read on all of this first
of all the presence of the head of the
CIA here in Qatar I mean look secret
Services have many ways of communicating
and talking to each other if the head of
the CIA wants to come and have these
talks in person what does that tell
you
well he frequently the head of the CIA
is a member of the cabinet in the United
States not always but frequently he's
clearly one of the top most senior
officials in the government so his
traveling obviously is a sign of the the
Deep strategic interest that the United
States places on the issues that are on
the war and and all of the potential
Fallout and consequences that it has
there's a there are tactical reasons why
he would be meeting with shik Alani and
and the kares you touched upon them that
would be the immediate objectives I
think which are to find some way for um
a release of the hostages and perhaps an
easing or a stopping of the fighting
with perhaps humanitarian pauses however
you want to call it so is that sort of
the immediate objectives the larger
objectives why he would be traveling why
the Sheik would be going to Egypt and
why the director Burns would be going to
Cutter and elsewhere is to try to find
some uh long-term solution to the
horrors that are unfolding to to um
address uh hamas's attack uh on Israel
and to stop that kind of event from
occurring and to address Israel's
response and invasion of Gaza and
displacement of half of the population
at least so it's a measure of importance
the United States places on those issues
staying on this shortterm negotiation
and again I appreciate we don't have all
the facts here all this happening behind
closed doors but this deal that Rob was
reporting on that's reportedly being
negotiated right a temporary pause in
the fighting versus the release of a
number of hostages U we're talking about
potentially 15 captives being released
what can you tell our viewers about the
challenges of these conversations how
they happen number one and what are the
challenges number
two
well there are conflicting currents that
are at play Cutters in the United States
are are close allies and yet cutter is
the closest strongest supporter of pamas
uh yet at least the United States can
engage substantively at any time and at
all different levels with the the
government of cutter unlike that of Iran
which is not an ally of the United
States of course and is the other great
supporter of Hamas so this is an
opportunity and a challenge both for the
United States and for cutter which have
overlapping and uh somewhat
contradictory uh objectives with respect
to Hamas uh Gaza and the whole crisis
with the Palestinians and Israelis talk
to us about the leverage right who has
leverage when you walk into that room uh
there are Qatari representatives there
is the US head of the CIA there's a US
base right here in Qatar Qatar also as
you said has uh contacts uh with strong
contacts with Hamas their political
leadership here in Doha who has leverage
in that
conversation well that's why they're
talking is that both parties the United
States and cutter in this instance have
leverage but different but leverage in
different uh areas of the whole issue or
The Clash the United States has some
influence less than most people imagine
uh on Israel because of the US's
long-standing diplomatic and material
financial support of Israel and kter of
course has some influence on Hamas
because of its financial support and
diplomatic uh support for for Hamas also
so that is why it's interesting for each
party to talk with the other uh and in
the encouraging sign on the hostages
issue and and others is that cutter and
the US are allies and do seek uh not
identical objectives but uh overlapping
ones uh so that's that's what brings
them together and and gives some hope
that there might be movement on the
hostages or on larger issues if any two
parties can have some influence I would
say it would be cutter in the United
States on on this specific issue Glenn
Carl former deputy National intell
elligence officer for transnational
threats at the CIA thank you so much for
uh making a time for us
today okay I want to bring uh wer s into
this conversation you're a professor of
law at the University of Colorado's
School of Law and you've been watching
events unfold with us today we've been
having um we've been talking about
various aspects of this uh since the
beginning of the day now this
conversation that's happening between um
Qatar will happen uh according to our
latest report in Qatar and the head of
the CIA the idea would be to obtain a
temporary pause in the fighting in Gaza
versus a release of a number of captives
what are the scenarios afterwards mean
if that happens maybe 15 captives
released if this is successful what
we're talking about and then a one day
two day thre day truce in the fighting
then what well I think one of the you
know the the the
the background to all this is that you
know one of the things that the Hamas
movement has been saying consistently is
that the issue of Palestinian prisoners
in Israeli detention facilities and
jails is kind of Paramount in this
current round of fighting and it was the
reason why they took all these people
and held them captive in in Gaza and
continue to hold them in Gaza so at some
point it would stand to reason that
there's going to be some sort of
agreement despite the bellicose rhetoric
of the Israelis that they're going to go
in and free the prisoners you know by
military means which doesn't seem to be
particularly realistic so these are the
type of kind of Peace meal moves that
we're seeing you know William Burns as
far as American actors are concerned has
a kind of a longer history in the
region you know I think a
relatively good reputation for kind of
direct and honest dealing and he's come
he's coming here to Qatar to as your
previous guest was talking about you
know talk to the other party with
leverage it's also a little bit kind of
you know it it it it shows the kind of
Stark positions that when a country like
the United States decides that a group
is a terrorist group that says Hamas is
a terrorist group it assumes that it
can't deal with it on any level so you
have to have this kind of um inter these
intermediaries talk which makes uh deals
and um stopping the fighting so strin
and so difficult which you know in the
in the face of the the the humanitarian
crisis that I'll say it you know even if
the Israeli military spokesperson
doesn't agree in the humanitarian crisis
in Gaza this these type of measures are
so desperately needed and it's just that
we see how cumbersome and and
complicated it can be uh given the
positions that uh that actors have taken
in in in this current round
and so looking back at previous
conflicts when you when you have
mediation and when you have deals like
this again this deal at this hour is not
done we don't know if it will
materialize or not there have been
moments in the in the last few days
where there have been reports rumors
that a deal was on the cusp of happening
and and they didn't until now happens
could be a confidence building measure
if I'm hearing you right towards perhaps
a bigger deal yes I mean I think that
you know
that when there's a war and I mean I'm
not a historian a military historian or
anything like that but it it seems that
when people are shooting at each other
you have exceedingly hard feelings and
nobody wants to be the first to kind of
you know to kind of give up or or feel
like they've been defeated so you see
the situation on the ground is active
fighting so these peace meal steps are
you know are I guess the best we can
hope for or expect you know and you know
to to to to kind of look at what's
actually been going on you know the
Israelis have said they're not
interested in these type of pauses
they're not interested in deals they're
interested in Victory their rhetoric is
very kind of bellicose and unwavering so
it's interesting to see the kind of you
know Hamas on the other hand have said
we're open for deals it's the Israelis
who aren't who aren't doing it so we'll
see what the reality actually is pending
you know this current development but um
you know in in such a such a dire sit
situation you know maybe there's some
element of Hope um it's that's something
obviously we're going to continue
watching very closely what da thank you
very much